part of the reason that we're excited
about sort of talking about imposter
syndrome today it's something that
affects a lot of content creators
but we recently launched uh like a beta
program for like people
like high potential and high performance
folks from our community
and it seems like imposter syndrome kind
of crops up
a lot in that group so for those of you
who don't know we have a
we're running like a beta program for
group coaching for people who are like
what we call hypos or hypers
so hypo stands for high potential if we
look at our community there's a
there's kind of like different themes
that different people need some people
need to learn self-compassion some
people need to learn
how to forgive some people need to learn
how to overcome procrastination
and so we have this high potential group
which there are about 13 spots left in
our beta
and the group is geared towards helping
people who are like sort of lacking
life purpose lacking discipline feeling
isolated feeling like they have low
self-esteem and confidence
like this is sort of geared towards the
student population so a lot of times
these people are actually like quite
functional and quite successful
academically and so we're trying to sort
of serve that population a little bit
better
so if you guys are interested y'all can
sign up we've got 13 spots left in our
beta
you know another thing that comes up we
see this a lot especially for like the
ivy league students and stuff that we
have in our community is that they've
got some imposter syndrome so hopefully
we'll dig into that try to understand it
a little bit better
how you doing man i'm doing good how are
you
i'm doing well i had a little bit of a
rough night my kid woke up randomly like
super early in the morning and came and
woke me up
so didn't get quite a full night's sleep
but part of being a parent you know
yeah how old is your kid i have a
five-year-old and a three-year-old oh
those are those are definitely waking up
early ages
yeah it's it's it can be fun
but yeah it's very very fun and and what
do you go by
uh usually just by ethan ethan okay um
yeah and yeah man so um
you want to talk about something in
particular today or
um i mean yes and no
like kind of down to just go with the
flow but
um yeah the main thing uh i guess was
just
uh imposter syndrome was a big thing
uh and uh yeah just sort of the
pressures of
being a content creator and a person
online absolutely i just took a month
off of youtube
uh which was really huge and sort of
like very
eye-opening for me um yeah so
you want to just actually start off by
telling us a little bit about where
people can find you and
and what kind of content you make yeah
uh so i do
mostly youtube and and streaming stuff
just crank game plays
everywhere i've been doing it for
it'll be nine years in august
i started when i was 15. um
yeah and uh it's been a it's been a
crazy little
little journey yeah sounds like a little
bit longer than a little journey
yeah yeah it's it's been a long time
which is weird because it both
seems like it hasn't i haven't been
doing this for a long time and i've been
doing it for
an eternity wow incredible
and so what what kind of um so crank
game plans i assume you play games
yeah mostly gaming stuff i'm trying to
now branch out a little bit more
uh just because again i've been doing it
for almost nine years
and i want to do something uh i want to
make more content that's a little more
like creatively
fulfilling um just because after doing
it for so long it's not as much of a
challenge anymore and i do really like
figuring things out and
you know being a little bit more
creative um
yeah and i just uh i just finished doing
a channel
with a friend of mine for a year we made
we made videos for a year
and then deleted everything um
and that was all we made a video every
single day
doing just like random [ __ ]
for most of the time
so it sort of adds i guess there's sort
of this timeless quality to youtube
videos
and um and and then you guys i guess
made it i guess
what would did you guys want to delete
everything like
yeah yeah that was frustration no that
was that was the goal from the beginning
the channel was called unis honest which
means one year in latin and so we were
every video started with a timer of how
much time was left
uh and so we did a year's worth of
videos and then we ended it with
a 12 hour live stream where at the end
of the live stream we deleted the
channel
while we were streaming from it and wow
everything went away
that sounds like quite creatively
fulfilling
yeah it was it was really really awesome
um it was super stressful but
uh it was like definitely
an awakening i think for both of us
being like oh wow like
doing this kind of stuff is really
really fun and also we don't just have
to do
gaming stuff like we can do other things
that sounds really great man i'm
you know it's interesting because you
were saying you want to creatively
branch out but that sounds like i've
never heard of anyone doing anything
like that before
yeah i think that's why i want to branch
out more just because that was so
fulfilling
in every single day was something
different um
and so yeah it just it helped
my brain a lot actually
can i think for a second yeah
so ethan i'm noticing sort of like an
interesting branch point already
whereas i i know so i know a lot of
times like people come on here and
and the idea is that we're going to talk
about something negative like imposter
syndrome and bad emotions
and burnout but um honestly like half
the work that i do is
is literally has nothing to do with the
negative it's sort of like bridging
people from
let's say like the journey from being
like depressed and then like one day
people will come into my office and then
we'll sort of have this conversation
about
you're not depressed anymore you're just
unhappy
and that there's a difference oh thanks
son
um and there's a difference between
being unhappy
and being depressed and so when i think
a little bit about like you know you
said you took a month off and that was
you know it sounds like it was
rejuvenating and maybe there's some
amount of imposter syndrome
there's also this sort of like personal
development arc
or like personal growth arc finding
fulfillment what is the nature of
suffering
what is the nature of happiness what is
the nature of contentment
when when we sort of have those kinds of
conversations we can still draw a little
bit
on science so we can talk about like
maslow or there's a psychologist named
eric erickson
so you know in the west we have a lot of
this stuff but we also can draw a lot on
kind of eastern principles of
spirituality
stoicism um almost take a slightly more
philosophical approach
and and it's odd ethan but like when i'm
sitting across from you
there's a part of me that just kind of
like feels like maybe that's the
direction we need to go at some point in
the conversation
yeah yeah for anything
that's the other thing is like i don't
even really know what i want to talk
about
necessarily um which is also like
another thing that i
have a hard time with like my adhd is
pretty bad uh and so like
having having conversations and me
having coherent thoughts
is also something that i struggle with
um
yeah so if i ever get lost in the
conversation
um that's why yeah so
okay so why don't can you just start
with telling us a little bit about like
how you started on
on youtube and what kind of inspired you
to
create content uh yeah it was basically
boredom um me and my best friend from
back home
one summer in august of 2012
uh we were just bored one night and we
had been watching a bunch of different
youtubers it was
mainly like pewdiepie and the game
grumps and we were like
huh like you have a computer and we like
messing around on camera like let's just
do this because
they do it and we like video games so
why not
uh and that's that's how it started and
then eventually i just went off on my
own and
and made videos and um yeah it mainly
stemmed from
boredom and then it grew into this
passion um
in this thing that i really really love
to do and i had been making
random videos uh since i was a kid like
just like home videos
my brother and then once youtube came
out just like random youtube videos here
and there with some friends
um and that's what i wanted to do when i
was a kid
not specifically be a youtuber but i
wanted to be an
entertainer in some sense like i wanted
to be an actor for a really long time
um and then i found youtube and it was
like oh it's sort of like this new
wave of entertainment or whatever
absolutely and then it just kind of
happened
and so what was it that appealed to you
about being an actor or entertainer
uh probably at the time when i was a kid
it was being the center
of attention i was always just pining
for people's attention
all the time um and that's something
that i'm even
like really insecure about because
looking back
at like home videos and stuff like that
or even my older videos from when i
first started
i feel super embarrassed by them and
like i'll show them to people because i
know that's
part of it like that's part of like hey
look where i came from
blah blah but it is kind of embarrassing
uh
just seeing that kid and being like oh
you're trying so hard
what's embarrassing about that um
i think it's i think it's that thing of
like oh you're trying
so hard to like be the center of
attention and
you're being like too much
um and like too bombastic and crazy and
stuff like that
um and that's that's also kind of what i
was being told
when i was a kid too sure not
necessarily by
my family sometimes by my family um
but like i didn't do well in school and
my teachers
were always like hey like you need to
settle down
um blah blah and it was also back in a
time where
um you know adhd was still not really
understood that much sure um and it was
just like oh you
don't have an actual mental thing going
on you just have too much energy and
your disruption to the class
um yeah you know ethan it's it's so
it's sometimes so sad like how
kids with adhd like we place value
judgments on them
right like you're being a bad kid yeah
and
and and it's it's actually quite
devastating like i i've seen this a lot
where it's like
a lot of people with adhd just feel they
carry around
so much like shame from early in their
life that they don't even understand
because it's it's been so normal to them
yeah you know that they're they're being
told to function in an environment that
their brain just isn't suited for
um and and it can be really rough so i'm
sorry you were in that
situation and it sounds like you know
people weren't happy with you
yeah no and that's that's something that
i've struggled with
for a really long time not only like
the thought of like oh i was a bad kid
and i know that i wasn't
a bad kid or anything um but i've always
felt stupid
like my entire life um and that's
something that i'd still struggle with
now
and i think it really comes from that
and come
comes from me being in school and not
being able to learn
the way that everybody else learned um
and so i just thought i was stupid
because i just didn't
i just didn't get it and you know
obviously like i went to a public school
so it was
you know 170 or 140 kids in my grade and
so it's not like the teachers can
individually teach kids in the way that
they learn
like it's just not realistic but yeah my
whole life i've sort of dealt with that
with
and i know that i'm not stupid but
that's always been a thing in the back
of my mind like i feel dumb
all the time okay
which i think also contributes to my
imposters intro
sure so we can talk about
hmm
so i i'm finding so many different forks
in the road ethan
and i don't know what direction to take
things so i'm gonna need your help
yeah and we can go we can go anywhere
so i think it's actually incredibly
insightful for you to say
i know i'm not stupid but i carry this
feeling around
and there's a part of me that's like
wants to just
explain to you or like ask you like how
does that work
and then even explain to you like this
is where we go into a little bit more of
like teaching mode
where you know i i can i can because a
lot of people don't understand that it
can be really confusing that like i know
i'm not stupid
and it's kind of weird right because
even when you show home videos to people
you're kind of owning that insecurity
you're kind of saying i'm not going to
let the insecurity like i'm i actually
am confident in myself i'm confident
with how far i've come and so showing
people like
home videos of the blunder years if you
really think about it is actually a sign
of like confidence
and at the same time you feel insecure
doing it even though there's a part of
you that's like yeah this is where i
came from i should be proud of it like
i've come a long way like
wow like i really didn't you know know
much back then
and so it's almost like you have these
two opposite poles that exist within you
at the same time does that make sense
yeah
um and and i think that there's some
value to be gained a little bit about
you know understanding like how how does
that work because like no one teaches us
like
why does my mind do these things yeah um
and if you want to we can kind of go
down that route
uh we can also talk a little bit about
imposter syndrome which i think it has
maybe something to do with that but but
i think there's more to it than that
usually
um or what we can do is you know i can
ask you questions about how you felt
stupid and then
you can end up becoming emotional on
stream
if that's the right because that
sometimes that's what people are looking
for they're looking for like
emotional catharsis as opposed to
teaching and yeah and it really
it's like what are you in the mood for
bro i'm
i'm down for anything um i'll cry on
stream if you want me to
it's not about what i want man it's
about what you want uh
let's let's explore that that first path
a little bit
okay so how do you understand
no like okay i'm gonna ask you a
question okay are you stupid
no i'm not stupid why do you feel that
way
um oh now that's a good question
um i mean it's just something that i
know
i know i'm not stupid um i
i i'm aware that my brain just works in
in different ways than other than other
people's do
yeah and when i get into the i think i
know i'm not stupid because i've proved
to myself that i'm not stupid
because in the right environment i can
thrive
um and that even happened in school
where
specifically um in physics
i did really well in that class because
we did a lot of hands-on stuff
where like the teacher showed actual
examples of the way that things worked
and it was like oh like this is this is
something that
that's being shown right in front of me
and also we're doing like hands-on stuff
and so like i could figure out how it
worked
and i did really well in that class
because i was in the correct environment
and so there have been a lot of things
like that where it's like oh i know i'm
not stupid because i
i'm actually doing well at this thing i
just learn differently
yeah so so now i'm gonna i'm gonna you
know
this is gonna be tough for you ethan so
i'm gonna press you okay because i think
you're not stupid at all
i think you're incredibly insightful i
think you're a smart guy
so i'm gonna ask you hard questions is
that okay
yeah are you feeling anxious if i say
something like that
no i i don't feel anxious about it at
all i'm down for anything
okay so so if you have proven to
yourself
that you're not stupid why do you still
sometimes feel stupid
um i think i feel that way because
most of the time i'm not in
that kind of environment where i do feel
where i feel comfortable like a lot of
times if
if there's like a large discussion going
on in a room i'll just stay completely
silent
because i
i'm afraid of well there's a few things
that i'm afraid of
one like i don't want to like embarrass
myself and say something that like
i don't know anything about um but two
it's another thing of like with my adhd
like it's
so hard for me to follow along
especially in group settings
and so i just like hang back and i just
am sort of like a fly on the wall
um i forget your original question yep
no i think it was so that's also
incredibly insightful right so i i don't
think that that was as anything with
adhd
i think i asked you a question and your
mind went to a place where you were like
oh
when i'm in group settings i asked you
like why do you sometimes feel stupid
and then you started talking about group
settings
and then you also talked about how
you've essentially adapted
to survive in group settings yeah does
that make sense like that's how i
interpreted what you said
but then the question still remains in a
group setting do you feel stupid
um a lot of times i do yeah because
i i feel like i don't have anything to
contribute
most of the time uh because i'm afraid
and like anxious of
saying something that i don't know uh
about or you know not following along
correctly whatever so
let's be a little bit precise here okay
so you're saying that you feel
afraid or anxious because you don't have
something to contribute
yeah okay so i'm gonna toss a hypothesis
to you that it's the other way around
okay it is your fear and anxiety and
insecurity
that causes you to conclude that you
don't have anything to contribute
what do you think about that that makes
a lot of sense
it's interesting right because we say
like oh i have nothing worth saying
therefore i am afraid or anxious or i
shouldn't speak up but it's actually the
other way around it's really tricky
subtle yeah because our mind always
makes us think that it's logical
but i actually think the root of that is
your insecurity i guess that you have a
lot to contribute
i don't think that you randomly become
stupid in groups of people
now there may be like a certain amount
of adhd where you're not able to attend
to what everyone is saying like that's
totally fine
um but i i think that you probably have
a lot to contribute but it's that your
insecurity becomes
active in that situation what do you
think about that
yeah that that makes a lot of sense and
that
that's something that i've sort of
realized in the past like
year or so is that um and i think
me being on youtube has actually made it
a lot worse
but i've realized that i'm way more of
an insecure person than
i thought i was um and there's like a
lot that i
that i like hold back and there's a lot
that i
like i don't uh open up to
a ton of people uh i think like
for me to like truly open up and talk
about stuff
um that i am insecure about like that's
a really hard thing for me to do
and like a lot of times i will just hold
back
because yeah because i'm insecure about
it
okay ethan i'm gonna need a minute can i
have a minute oh yeah i just love what
like oh man okay i think i think i'm
finally getting a sense of maybe how we
can take this conversation today okay
i just need a second to make sure we can
you know i can try to tie this together
okay
cool so
i'm excited to get into it oh buddy
it's gonna be walking a tightrope
[Laughter]
oh yeah
okay here's my proposal
now the downside is going to be that i
may be talking more than you so you got
to let me know if that rubs you the
wrong way
okay we're going to start with your
insecurity we're going to start by
understanding what is like
like so you know when we say the
insecurity activates in a particular
environment
it's going to start very very simple
with principles of not quite psychology
this is really more of like yoga and
meditation
about the way that the mind works so
what i want to
hypothesize to you and we'll explain
this in more detail is that you're like
a confident secure person generally
speaking okay
but that in some circumstances your mind
activates insecurity.exe
and then like you become like this
person that you used to be
and like you know even though you're
successful and people like you have
these like
you know really risky broad creative
pursuits like i've
you are the first content creator i've
ever ever heard of
that intentionally deletes a year of
their life
and what they put in it is so incredibly
wild and courageous
it's so authentic and it's so ballsy
right that's like look at the
scrotum on that guy so we know that
there's this huge like we know that
there's this you who's like grown a lot
the problem is that like you have this
thing that you carry with you
this insecurity that like is always at
the back of your mind you're stupid and
sometimes it becomes more active
and when it becomes active it shapes
your thoughts it says oh like i
shouldn't speak up here
so we're going to start by sort of
explaining how that works in the mind
the second thing that we're going to do
is segue that into youtube and imposter
syndrome
so once we understand what that
insecurity thing is
we're gonna take a look at sort of like
science and social media and things like
that
and see what youtube and social media
does to this basic psychology you have
and how that results in imposter
syndrome
then we're going to talk a little bit
about how opening up is difficult
and the crux here and i'm you know i'm
really building a house of cards that
could come
tumbling down okay so bear with me so
this is where like we're going to talk a
little bit about like the more that
that essentially youtube inflates
both your success and your insecurity
because they both rise together which i
know is weird
but that's really what we see that makes
opening up difficult
because like as you start to become a
youtuber
and you start to see that there's two
ethans right there's the ethan who's
like a badass who's been
youtubing for nine years and is
confident and knows that they're they're
worth their weight in gold and then
there's like this other ethan that's
like well what if everyone just thinks
i'm an idiot and if i open my mouth
they're gonna think i'm stupid and it's
all gonna come crumbling down
yeah and and it's that it's that
dichotomy which makes it hard for you to
open up because like what if they see
the other one
what if it actually is that ethan like
then what
and so then what happens is you start to
like be inauthentic you start to hide
yourself
you start to you know like you're doing
the
like when you were a little kid and you
wanted to be loud and you wanted people
to like see who you are i don't think
that's like
quite you know attention is one thing i
think you have another way to think
about is i think you genuinely have
something that you want to share with
the world
and so the more you it makes opening up
difficult
the more you're closing yourself off
with like what you show to the world
and this is where we get to the personal
growth part which is like we sort of end
the journey with sort of understanding
that like
if you want to grow as a person and if
you want the courage to take those
creative pursuits
you have to show people the ugly side of
you you have to show
be willing to show everything that you
have to like the world
and if you can do that then i think
you're going to find co like you're
going to start creating more content
that's creatively fulfilling
yeah how does that sound this sounds
like a
a great plan okay all right so let's
start with the insecurity okay
so let's start by understanding this
kind of thing so
we're going to start with the insecurity
so
when you feel so does it kind of make
sense
that the insecurity is like a program
that activates in your mind and kind of
takes over your thought process
yeah so can you give me an example of
like what
situation like can you give us like
share a specific
example of like when you felt like you
know stupid.exe was activating
there's so many examples
um yeah i mean
like
i like any conversation honestly
um there's so many times where
where it happens um you know if somebody
is uh
i don't know basically if somebody's
talking about anything other than
like youtube stuff or
um like cameras or gymnastics
i used to be a gymnast anything other
than that
i it's pretty much like out of my
wheelhouse from being
if i'm being honest and so there's a lot
of times where i feel like
i i can't weigh in on stuff and to give
you
some history like i was
uh i was a gymnast from when i was eight
until 17.
i worked out five days a week three and
a half to four hours a day
um and then when i was 15 i started
youtube
um and so splitting my my time between
school and gymnastics and i
didn't really have any social life at
all um and then
i got really shitty grades and my mom
was like you have to stop gymnastics or
school
or sorry gymnastics or youtube um and so
i chose to continue youtube
and so can you tell me about that
conversation
yeah um it was
my sophomore year
i think um yeah end of sophomore year
my mom found out that i got
two d's on my finals i got like
i got like a b multiple c's and two d's
on my finals um and she like freaked out
about it
um because basically all i cared about
was youtube and
and gymnastics i didn't care about
school which
looking back like why should i have
cared about school because
it wasn't it was an environment that
made me feel uncomfortable
in so many different ways um and so she
she got really upset about it and she
was like okay
you have to take school more seriously
you can't be doing all this stuff you're
juggling way too much
you have to pick two of these one of
them has to be school
um and how did you feel
that was the first time i ever had a
panic attack um
i like completely broke down
like i was like like
it was really really bad like i was like
screaming like
screaming crying uh because i just
didn't know how to handle that because
that
uh i think it was a couple things one
because i loved both of these things
so much but in the back of my mind i
knew that i was
about to choose youtube and gymnastics
was
like this huge thing like it
really shaped who i am as a person
and knowing that i was about to give
that up just like completely
like shattered me
okay
so what what was so devastating about
because i'm going to use the word
sentence yes it sounds like sentencing
to me
yeah like i'm envisioning you like
almost
being like in a courtroom where there's
like your mom with a gavel and she's
like
yeah that's kind of what it was like
which child will you execute yeah
what was that what was what
caused the panic attack for lack of a
better term i know it's kind of a weird
question because
i i think that you just phrased it
really well it was like i'm
killing one of i'm killing myself off
like this version of myself
and i have to choose which person to put
the
to point the gun at and like that
that was something especially at that
age too
like i just didn't know how to
how to handle that um
and i like looking back i
i solved that problem um
really well i think i was like okay well
let's look at my future like
if you're going to be like a career
gymnast like
your career kind of stops when you're
like 25
26 because your body can't handle it
anymore so really like
where can you go from there after that
like maybe you get some sponsorships but
then you kind of like become a coach and
that's kind of it
and then i was like but with this other
thing like maybe i could go more into
film
and like blah blah so i was like okay
this one's better for my future
okay beautifully set okay so this is
what oh crap
so i would love ethan boy man this is
one of those interviews where i really
wish we had like
five hours because there's so much to
dig into here
because i think there's there's more to
it so i'm gonna just like jump to the
punch line here and the punch line is a
hypothesis because we don't really know
but
i think there's another element right
it's not just which
where do you point the gun it's also
like
what you are like who is your mom
so so what i i want you to think about
for a second
is what is your mom
so your mom is asking you to point the
gun
but she's also asking you to not only
kill off a part of yourself
what is she asking you to become
yeah so she wants me to become a good
student
is at the end of the day that's what she
wants you to become
so she's asking you to become a student
what is she
sentencing you to
i mean
she's
she's basically asking me to like choose
the version of myself
to pick the version of myself that i
want to be i guess
and then nope she's not
she's not no she's asking you to make
the choice that you don't want to be
she sent it because are you going to be
a good student
no i still was not a good student after
that right and i think you understood
that
and so it's not just like getting rid of
gymnastics or youtube it's like
forcing you to like here's like so
there's two ethan's right there's the
ethan who can be proud of what they
accomplish
there's like the youtube ethan and the
gymnast ethan
and i like those are those are good
ethans
yeah tell me about ethan the student
i mean i just didn't care
at all so there was
there was a few reasons why i didn't
care so number one reason was because
youtube and gymnastics was just
everything
um that's where my passion was i wasn't
passionate about anything in school like
i wasn't learning anything that i was
interested in
um and then the the environment that i
was in
was i went to like the best
public school in the area or whatever
and so they
they were really proud of the people
that went to their school and it was
always
like oh like all 99.9
of our students going to college and
like blah blah blah and like
being in that environment and knowing
that so many people
around me were these like grade a
students
and like we're going on to these big
universities
and then and again me being like
well [ __ ] like i feel stupid all the
time and i'm getting bad grades and i'm
like i i didn't feel like and i i think
that this is true for a lot of kids
like i didn't feel like i was a part of
the school in a lot of ways because
i i didn't do anything at school like i
wasn't a part of any clubs i didn't do
any sports through the school
i went to school when i had to
i left immediately i didn't hang out
with anybody
because i didn't have time because i was
too busy doing
youtube and gymnastics um which
also looking back is like i was a really
really
passionate and dedicated kid to what i
cared about
um and i think that in the environment
that i was in like that was kind of hard
to find
actually um and i remember
one of the proudest moments i think
was a couple years after i
i graduated and i was doing youtube and
i was working full-time
as a manager at a restaurant and i was
making two videos every day
and my dad told me that he's never met
somebody that works as hard as i do
and like that that like
that made me just like explode
um what does that mean just like
hearing that hearing that
one at all after i just kind of felt
like i was a [ __ ] up for a really long
time
because i wasn't traditionally
doing well because i got shitty grades
and i didn't participate in school
and hearing somebody be like seeing
somebody
recognize how hard i worked um
and especially that being my dad was
just like really
really huge and my dad and i have a
really great relationship and
he's someone that i really really really
look up to and so hearing that come from
him
just it was really really big for me
big in what way
just really validating that like
the the time that i had spent working as
hard as i did because i
at the time i was working full time at
the restaurant so 40 plus hours a week
i was waking up at like 4 30 or 5
a.m every day to record videos before
work
and then i would get back it was very
unhealthy at the time but i would get
back from work
uh and then be editing until like
midnight or one
and i would do that like almost every
day for a really long time
and so just having somebody validate
that and say like hey i recognize how
hard you're working but
also on top of that like you are one of
the hardest working people
that i know and it was also i don't
remember if he actually did say it but i
mean
it kind of goes along with what he said
anyway it was just like
having somebody say i'm proud of you was
just like really
really big for me and i don't know
um i think everybody loves that having
somebody validate
you know what they're doing and have
having somebody say hey i'm proud of you
don't uh ethan don't do the mistake of
you know
i didn't like it when you compared
yourself to everyone there i think don't
don't cheapen your experience and how
significant it was for you by just
saying
you know everyone likes to be told
they're proud like i don't think that's
what happened there you didn't just get
told you were proud
so here's here's how i i'd understand
your situation
so like your mom like was tell like like
so there's two ethans right there's the
ethan who's like passionate
and like good at stuff and then there's
the ethernet ethan who's like sort of a
failure
and you say that you didn't care about
school and that's why you did bad
that's another thing where i would
encourage you to see if it's the other
way around
because it's really hard to be a kid who
feels like you're stupid
who's surrounded by and you're giving us
a lot here right so like let's just
think about
i'm just gonna tell you what i heard
like you're a kid who knows like you
don't know you've got adhd but like
you just know that this is the best
public school and that people are going
to go off to college and they get all
a's and then there's you
and what's wrong with you ethan why
can't you get good grades
because you're stupid you're a stupid
kid
and that's and so like it's hard to be
invested in something that you don't
believe that you can do
yeah i don't think that the care like i
don't think you did bad because you
didn't care i think you probably when
you were five and six and seven
you tried really really hard and your
mind did not comply
yeah and so to pre like it's it's one
thing to
like so it's almost protective to stop
caring because if you did care about
school
what would that mean for you
i think that that if i did care like
that probably would have [ __ ] me up
way more absolutely
right so not caring is not the reason
you didn't do good at school
not caring is the adaptation for not
doing good at school
and then here is your mom and she's
saying here's the gun you pick
which one goes but it's more than that
because it's not that you're just
getting rid of one it's that she's
forcing you to be stupid ethan she's
like here's this kid
that is like bright and talented and is
a good gymnast and is doing well on
youtube
and is passionate about this stuff and
she's like i'm gonna take one of those
away
and i'm gonna force you to be crappy
ethan 50 of the time
and now we get to the story with your
dad because it's not just like oh like
everyone enjoys being validated oh yeah
my dad tells me i'm proud makes me feel
good
like i completely agree like you know
everyone feels good but i think it's
actually like it's so much like it
brings me to tears man like
you know like that kid is like you know
they're struggling hard right like it's
it hasn't been easy for you
and to have like your dad recognize that
like you're not dumb like it's just
you're like working so hard it's like
immense
it becomes incredibly powerful it's not
just being told sorry i'm getting myself
i'm just thinking about it i was gonna
be the one crying
i told you i was gonna talk a lot today
so i'm gonna do the crying too
um but i i think i think it's like it
feels really significant to me because
it's this moment where you were seen
right it's this moment where you were
like appreciated and this is going to
all tie back in the imposter syndrome
and like what i was saying at the
beginning about not beginning but
earlier where like
i think what you need to do to create is
to like let people see you
you know like you need to give people
the chance to like do what your dad like
you need to put yourself out there right
and let people see you
um and then in terms of imposter
syndrome there's also something very
clear about you know being in this
straight a school or whatever and being
the one kid with d's and whatnot so like
maybe you felt like an imposter's in
there
i think there are a couple of themes
which we can touch on and does that make
sense
yeah yeah that makes a lot of sense
um
yeah okay i'm just thinking about it
yeah why don't you just take a second
and then let me know when we're ready to
move on or if you have questions or want
to try to recap
i it's it's very interesting
thinking about it in the in the way that
you presented it
of like my mom forcing me to
to kill off a version of myself and like
i also recognized that it was like
my mom having to make a really hard
decision too
sure because like because i it was bad
for me like to be juggling all of
all of that stuff and like i looking
back
i don't think like my mom was the bad
guy or anything like that but
but it was it really was her being like
all right
like i almost in a way wish
she would have just said okay no no more
gymnastics or
no more youtube because i feel like
not having a choice in that
circumstance like
me having having the weight of the
decision not be on me
i think would have been so much easier
and like i
and again i think that's why i freaked
out was like
i have to make this choice
yeah absolutely right so when you talk
about a panic attack i think it like
it's not
surprising because i think that like in
that moment your mind
understood like what future
like there's a door the door to your
bright future is being closed and you're
being like
put on this path of like academia
and like failure and like it makes
perfect sense that you had a panic
attack
and i also want to say like as a
disclaimer here so sometimes when we
talk about parents
we make it seem like they're evil i
don't think your mom was evil or bad by
any means
i think like parents do what they think
is best for their kids
and sometimes it's inevitable but like
we're gonna psychologically traumatize
our children no matter how much we love
them and that's just the nature of life
it's the nature of our mind seriously
i'm not kidding yeah
yeah you know and and so the parents did
the best that they could and they also
i'm sure that your mom
did a lot of wonderful stuff for you too
and yeah so you know i just want to be
clear that i don't think she was a bad
person or anything it's just like
you know her kid is doing too much and
they're failing out of school and like
no one know like you know you being a
youtuber wasn't a thing back then
yeah so it's not like there's actually
you know so your mom was just doing what
she thought was best
and sometimes it's the little things
that can actually be like
psychologically very difficult
so now i'm going to
we're going to go to can we move on
phase two okay
so we talked a little bit about feelings
so here's ethan okay
and then so here's like there's like
this whole
complex of gymnast oh [ __ ]
so you have to excuse me so i i don't
know if you know this but i'm a
physician
which means that i have terrible
handwriting
um all right okay so there's this is the
ethan right so
and then there's school so here here you
are at the age of sophomore year and
then your mom has this conversation then
you have this panic attack
yeah okay so
and then what is like what are you
feeling in the panic attack do you
remember
um yeah it was the first time that i'd
ever felt like overwhelming emotions
like
like that yeah i remember i i grabbed on
to
a lamp that we had that
had like three three sort of prongs that
that went out to hold the uh the
lampshade and i just grabbed that and i
just
squeezed it as hard as i could and it
was
metal um and like that's all i could do
was just like squeeze the lamp while i
was lying on the floor um
okay and then that's kind of all i
remember yep
and then you you remember like do you
remember when you kind of reconstituted
like you said like you made this
calculated decision and you kind of
calmed down
quickly was that the same day or next
day or what
it was the same day it was over the
course of like a couple hours i think
of like actually calming down because i
just kind of like laid on the floor and
like hyperventilated for a while and i
remember my mom
uh my dad was at work and she called my
dad and she was in the other room but i
could hear her and she was like hey i
need you to come home
like i just had this conversation with
ethan and he's freaking out and like
it's really
really bad and i need you to come home
okay and i remember
like by the time that my dad got home
i was like winding down i was still
probably like
hyperventilating and like sobbing a
little bit but like the main part of it
was
was sort of over yeah so as you start to
rationalize
where does that emotion go
[Music]
um
i mean it sort of went into
um it was more like analytical in me
being like
okay here here are my options and
just sort of like in my brain sort of
lining everything out of like
i was kind of doing like like the doctor
strange
like infinite universe kind of thing
where i was just like all right
how how many circumstances can i make in
my
brain with the options that i have and
what is the best
outcome okay i'm going to choose this
outcome um i was sort of doing that kind
of thing
and so i i think rationalizing it
actually probably helped me calm
down a lot as soon as i started to think
about it that way
sure makes perfect sense okay so i'm
going to give you a quick scenario
normally i run through this in a little
bit more detail but we're just going to
get to that
so like this is the example that i like
to use so let's say i'm walking down the
street with my five-year-old
and she sees a dog and she tries to pet
it
and the dog bites her what happens to
her
emotionally uh
she's gonna be traumatized and she's
probably gonna cry
yep right so she's crying and then i
kind of calm her down a little bit
and then i ask her if she wants ice
cream
right so i distract her hey do you want
ice cream
and she's like yes definitely five
minutes later
she's eating ice cream and she's happily
talking to me about
princesses make sense yeah
crying emotion is gone right what
happens the next time she sees a dog
she's gonna probably get afraid that
she's gonna get bitten again
okay so where is that emotion coming
from
it's coming from the trauma that she had
with the dog
perfect right so now i want you to
understand this
so now why is that emotion so i want you
to think about it this way so this
this emotion gets stored into our
unconscious mind
does that make sense and then
what causes the emotion to like cross
over
into the conscious mind uh
by seeing the thing that made her feel
that feeling
very good so let's think about
um like a triggering environment
does that make sense yep
and so like i know this sounds kind of
weird i i keep on insisting on using
this example but
if you go to let's say a hotel let's say
you're traveling ethan
and you walk into the public restroom
of the hotel and how do you know
how to operate a toilet that you've
never seen before
because most toilets are the same
exactly so where does that knowledge
about the toilet come from
my past absolutely and what causes you
like so
so i know this sounds kind of weird but
like are you thinking about flushing the
toilet before you see the toilet
no right so so like there's this very
simple principle of the mind
that it scans and this is something that
the intellect does or the buddhi
it scans your environment and it kind of
says like okay what is the appropriate
experience that we need to activate to
help us deal with the situation
does that make sense yeah works for
toilets
works for trauma
it's the same thing it's a very
fundamental idea of mind
so then the question becomes you know so
now you say to yourself so now we're
going to kind of like reconceptualize
this a little bit okay so you say to
yourself i know i'm smart
right damn it
can i do this or okay looks like i just
can't do this okay whatever
um so you know you're smart and yet
there are times where you feel stupid
so how does that work so we have
our manus which is our emotional mind
our ahamkara which is our ego
and our buddhi which is our intellect
and there are certain
environments so you essentially have a
stored emotion of stupidness
and like it like even though it's not
active most of the time
like you know you're smart like you know
like logically like your intellect has
concluded that you're a worthwhile dude
but essentially you have this thing
called a some scar
which is essentially that balled up
undigested and emotional energy of
feeling stupid
and there are certain times in your life
where your brain is scanning the
environment like when you're with a
group of people and it's like oh [ __ ]
yeah this is when we're stupid because
if i had to guess
i'm sure we could find lots of instances
of you sitting in a classroom with lots
of people talking about stuff that you
may not know what they're talking about
and the teacher calls on you and you
feel really really dumb
yeah and like when you feel really
really dumb
like where does that feeling go
how long do you feel dumb for when
you're in that classroom
uh i mean that
i think that that feeling was just kind
of always there
like the the dread of being called on
because i was like nine times out of ten
i'm not gonna know what we're talking
about and
i'm i'm not going to be able to
contribute so it just kind of was
constantly there let me ask you
ethan when you are in a group of people
who are talking about something does
your mind tell you
i don't really know what we're talking
about i'm not going to be able to
contribute
um yeah it kind of does a lot of so like
it's weird right it's like the same damn
thoughts that you used to have
in the classroom you now have in groups
of people
is that why i still have nightmares
about uh
high school so yes yes
yes absolutely so nightmares
so so now we get to okay great great
point because we have
this is a deviation that we haven't
talked about so this is what i want you
to understand okay
so in our emotional mind you have this
experience of sadness
feeling stupid actually let's call it
feeling stupid not sadness okay
and then what happens is that like your
mind distracts yourself in some way
or you use rationalization and then
this thing goes dormant okay let's say
this is the line of your
conscious mind okay and it gets
stored as this thing called a sumscar
which is like this ball of
undigested emotional energy which then
gets recalled
at particular times you with me so far
yeah okay and so now the question is
like then how do we ever get rid of this
right because like like it's kind of
interesting so this is where
you know now if you were to if you were
to be in an experience where you felt
stupid
what would you do with like what would
you do
i know it sounds kind of weird but we've
talked about when you were 15 and when
you were like
eight but like now if something bad
happens to you like what's something bad
that's happened to you recently
can you do you mind sharing anything it
can be anything
uh anything
bad it could be even a tiny thing like
any negative emotion that you've had
recently
uh i mean does being sick count
not really um
i'm tr i'm trying to think of of any
and yeah i know i'm kind of putting you
on the spot no it's totally fine
i just fell apart but oh uh i was
i was moving out of my my old apartment
and uh because i just moved kind of
recently
and i still had a bunch of [ __ ] there
that i had to deal with
and it was just super super stressful
for me to have to like
go back there and deal with stuff that
was still there
and and what did you do with those
emotions i know it sounds like kind of a
weird question because we don't even
realize what we do with the emotions but
like
um i
i tend to just kind of like
on to them and not not like i'm going to
be upset
all day but i just kind of like it's
almost
like i'm absorbing them and just like
yeah okay that's okay so we're gonna
have to teach you a different
way yeah okay so so here's here's what
tends to happen as we get older so if we
look at like
the psychiatry and psychology right most
of the time like the money's in
childhood
and the reason for that is because as we
grow older our ability
to process emotions improves like if i'm
walking down the street and i get bit by
a dog like what kind of thoughts do you
like what's my initial reaction
uh i mean at least for me if i get bit
by
i'm probably just gonna get like upset
and like angry
yep and then what are you rather than
rather than cry
sure and then what happens is
walk away i guess sure right so like
like you kind of walk away and
okay maybe this is what we need to work
on a little bit so like this is also
where like you know most adults will do
some amount of processing right like so
in the same way so we can talk about
this in terms of stupidity actually we
have a good example of this
where you sort of rationally look at
your situation
and you kind of say like oh actually i'm
not stupid i just feel stupid right now
but like i actually have a lot that i'm
you know i contribute to people et
cetera et cetera does that sort of make
sense
so there's this process of like actually
digesting or metabolizing emotions so
this is what psychotherapy is
so when you go and you talk to a
counselor and you like talk about your
feelings it's kind of weird like
how does that help people like what is
the mechanism through which
talking about the bad stuff in your life
actually like
helps you in any way shape or form
because a lot of times people will
think about the bad things in their life
it doesn't help them at all it just
makes them feel worse
so there's actually this process of
metabolizing and digesting your negative
emotions
and the more that you do that the more
um you're kind of free of those some
scars
so if i get bit by a dog and i kind of
like process it
then like i'm not i'm not going to get
triggered by the dog anymore
and i'm sure if we like tunnel down
enough i can ask you enough open-ended
questions that you know it's hard to
lead you in the right direction but i'm
sure if you look in your life
you'll see that there are times where
you felt emotionally bad and you like
did the work of talking it through with
a friend or you like went for a long
hike
or like you did something right you
didn't just shove it aside you didn't
stick it under the rug
but you actually spent some time
grieving so grieving is another good
example of this emotional processing
thing
where like some people don't grieve and
then they stay stuck
does that make sense because that ball
of emotional energy that some scar is
just living down there
and grieving is how we like get over it
psychotherapy is how we get over it
okay so
let me just think about where i wanted
to go with this any questions about this
does this make sense
yeah no it makes a lot of sense and it's
making me think about like how
i because specifically for anger
when i get angry i've learned how to
deal with that and i don't i
rarely ever get angry but like when i
get really
mad or frustrated now i'll go and work
out or i'll go running
because it's just like a way for me to
get a lot of energy out really quick
and that's sort of how i process that
but
i don't have that for any other emotion
yep that's very
very well said so the other thing
beautiful ethan so good okay
so a couple of important principles your
body and your mind are connected
right so there's like there's like a
pseudoscientific
practice called tapping or the emotional
freeing technique
which now actually has a little bit of
data behind it
which is like a technique that people
use for trauma which actually now has
clinical trials that show it's like
it actually does something so the idea
is that like it's kind of weird because
it sounds pseudo
super pseudo scientific and what people
do is like there are these people who
are tappers
and what they literally do is they just
like tap on parts of your body to like
free the pent-up emotions kind of like
acupuncture or something
sort of i think acupuncture uses a
different a whole different modality but
yeah
yeah so and the point here though is
that like
physical and we know that for example
the diagnostic criteria for
for anxiety includes muscle tension so
there's clearly a connection between
your body and your mind and you can
actually process emotions physically if
you want to
that's a completely valid doesn't have
to be psychotherapy you can actually go
and like
hike and climb mountains and that will
help you like process your emotions
the other interesting way that the mind
processes emotions which is i think what
your mind has learned how to do
is dreams and nightmares so every time
you have a nightmare about that
i know it's unfortunate but like my hope
is that you're digesting a little bit
and there are actually particular
techniques that we can do
i i can walk you through those maybe
that's not gonna be our meditation for
the day at the end of the day
about how to like think about nightmares
and how to like work with them a little
bit so that like you sort of
use that nightmare to like do the
emotional processing and let it go
because your body and your mind are
gonna do whatever they can to heal like
if you get a cut
it's just gonna try to heal and your
mind does the same thing it does the
best that it can
so it'll and and so if you have
nightmares about how often you have
nightmares by the way
um i mean i don't have nightmares all
that often
um the like school ones the like stress
stream kind of things
i'll have like
maybe once every few weeks or once a
month maybe
yeah so i think that's just like
your your brain is like you still have
that pent up emotion i know it
sounds kind of weird but in the
nightmare so our
when you're in the nightmare is the
nightmare real
no uh or like is it
is like what's happening something that
actually happened
is that where you're asking is your
experience of it real
uh i mean yeah because i'll wake up and
feel stressed yep so like like and even
then like the emotions that you feel in
a nightmare are they real
yeah it's bizarre right yeah but
absolutely
so i think like this is your and if we
think about like this emotional
catharsis and when people like
like come into my office and they start
crying like what we're doing is bringing
those emotions
back into the conscious mind so that we
can experience them process them and let
them go
and so i think that your mind has just
learned how to do this through a
nightmare because you don't know how to
do it
other ways or maybe you have i don't
know if you see a therapist or not but
like
you know that's another way i would
suspect that if you start going to
therapy
i'm assuming that you don't already know
but that if you start i just
i just stopped going to therapy actually
i just like took a break
because doing stuff over
zoom every week like i couldn't like get
into the right like
mindset every week and so until i can go
back in person we
we took a little bit of a break but i
just stopped going like a few weeks ago
good good i i think taking a break from
therapy is like important too like it
should be part of your vacation
um but anyway so hopefully you can kind
of work on some of those things
there but i think it sort of makes sense
to me that you have nightmares about the
sort
this kind of stuff yeah so the
just to kind of summarize so ethan do
you mind just sharing with me like what
you've taken away from the conversation
so far like key points
that yeah uh i mean the
the sort of realization of like having
to like
kill a version of me off i think
has like affected me a lot more than i
initially thought and like
and i think i get this from my dad but
like i very much
don't process my emotions like something
will happen to me and i'll just kind of
brush it off
um and i also just like
will kind of roll over for people too
what does that mean
well just like i don't know uh
i don't i don't like stand up for myself
all that much
um and also i don't know how to say no
to anybody
um which is something that i've been
sort of like working on
um and i think that's part of me my
insecurity
is like i don't want this is something
i've actually talked to my therapist a
lot about
um is that i don't want people to think
that i'm an [ __ ]
and so if somebody asked me to do
something i'll just like kind of bend
over backwards for them
and be like oh yeah of course because i
don't want them to think i'm a dick
okay i'm curious did you feel pressured
to come on here today
no okay would you tell me if you did
yeah okay yes i'm very excited okay
because i would hate to i would hate to
you know have you bend over backwards
for
no you know um okay so
so really i'm glad that so now i'm going
to give you a choice so
what i'm actually hearing ethan is that
the the biggest thing that was helpful
for you was sort of this realization
about your mom and sort of being you
know forced to
looking for the right word amputate a
part of yourself
yeah and and so now you know i i've
sketched out this beautiful plan
but i'm wondering if we should actually
abandon it and just maybe like dig for a
couple more of those gems like
what do you think we can go down our
standard track of okay here's the way
that some scars work
this feeling of insecurity is
essentially like pent-up emotions from
these
past times that then activate we can now
move on to like youtube and think a
little bit about how that entire process
is exacerbated by social media then we
can talk about how
opening up is difficult and then we can
sort of talk about you know becoming
your best
self or we can dig for gems
what do you want to do uh we can do we
can do either of those
um your time bro i'm going to force you
to choose
oh [ __ ] no i'm not no i can't
i'm so sorry i'm so sorry
okay oh god wait um
you don't have to choose you choose you
do you want to choose no not really
okay i will choose for you okay okay
let's let's
let's stick with our original thing okay
i'm so sorry ethan oh god it's very
funny
i didn't mean to all right
so let's talk about youtube so you say
that you suffer from
imposter syndrome or maybe something
like that what do you mean by that
um so definitely over the past year
because the
the channel that i was doing with a
friend of mine like really
boosted my career a lot and boosted my
own channel and everything
um and so i just sort of feel like
um just kind of standard imposter
syndrome of like
the things that i have i don't deserve
or
um i i think a lot of um
i think a lot about like why am i in
this scenario
and like uh you know a lot of a lot of
people in my life
especially over the past year have had
really shitty things happen in them
and here i am like you know on paper
like living the dream in los angeles
um and so it's a lot of like why am i
this person
that's experiencing this um and there's
there's a lot of guilt that i that i
feel with the
success that i have and i don't feel
that i deserve it basically
do you feel like you
don't deserve it from like a cosmic
sense or do you feel like
people haven't figured out that you
don't make good content yet
[Laughter]
oh i i think i think it's the latter
it's in my mind like there's so many
other people that make way better stuff
than i do
like i don't think that i'm particularly
interesting
or that i
and again this is something that i'm
working on with my therapist
of like i don't feel like i'm worthy of
people's time
most of the time so i'm
noticing a couple of different things
and i wouldn't call all of them imposter
syndrome okay
so can i try to tease apart untangle
this ball of yarn so when i think about
imposter syndrome so here's
for better or for worse i feel like i'm
understand it quite well now
um you know we've worked with a lot of
streamers and and uh we have like a
program with twitch where we
support content creators and so
one of the things that that when i think
about imposter syndrome i'm going to use
sort of this eastern kind of conception
of it as well
so we have an internal sense of self
right and this is the way that you
view yourself and we have the way that
the world treats us
and so the way that i view myself is
different from the way that the world
treats me does that make sense
generally speaking though
actually so let's go back to your dad
for a second so there are times
where like harmony is built when these
two things
are even so i think like the
significance of like your dad talent
like appreciating you for who you are
is like you knew deep down that you were
working really
really hard and you were trying and so
you had this view of yourself but what
did the world think of you
that i was a failure right so but like
the world kept on telling you were a
fail you were a failure
does waking up at 4 30 in the morning
making youtube videos
going to work and then coming back home
and editing them
if i describe that to someone like what
adjectives would you use to describe
that person
like hard-working and dedicated and
probably successful passionate right
yeah
so there's a there's a there's a
disconnect between your internal
sense and what the world is telling you
that can be very devastating for people
and then here comes your dad and he's
like he's a signal from the outside
world that aligns with like
your passion and your dedication and so
it can feel really good
so in that situation your self-esteem is
up here the world is treating you down
here
and so that's kind of feels bad man
right
impostor syndrome is this it's when
you have a sense of yourself like you're
just like an ordinary guy like you're 24
year old ethan
you know there's some things you're good
at some things you're not great at and
the world is like oh my god
it's it's ethan he's so great like look
at the school stuff he's doing all the
time man oh my god i love ethan and then
you're like wait a minute hold on a
second
yeah you know so what i see in imposter
syndrome and i see it a lot
at places so i teach at harvard medical
school and like i see it a lot there
bizarrely and you'd think that like you
know
like what's the correlation between
success and imposter syndrome
and generally speaking the more
successful people are the more
that they feel imposter syndrome and and
essentially what happens is like
generally speaking our internal sense of
self and external sense of self tend to
like
stick with each other so if you think
about a standard person it's like oh you
know i'm a high school student
i feel terrible and then you like become
a freshman in college
then once you're a freshman in college
you feel like a like you know a nobody
like you're a freshman you're a noob
and then you go back home for christmas
and then you hang out with people who
are one or two years younger than you
yeah and then like then you feel like a
big swinging dick
you know yeah it's like look at all
these high school plebs and like i'm in
college now [ __ ]
and so there's kind of this weird like
this slow
growth right and then you finish high
school and then you go back and like you
like
like do a career panel for like high
schools i mean
sorry you finish college and then you
get a job and then you're like 24 and
you go back and you like
do some career panel at the guidance
office or whatever
and they're all these 21 year olds and
like you're a 24 year old and you're
like paying your own rent
and then you like feel like someone
right but you're the most junior person
at the
the the company so you don't feel like
much there
so generally speaking there's like an
even sense
of like societal respect with like an
internal sense of value
because that's the way that we're sort
of designed we're not designed to like
inherit vast amounts of success over
brief periods of time because things
like social media
like i don't know if this makes sense
but you know 10 000 years ago
you couldn't blow up in your tribe yeah
there's only like so big that you could
get
right and so like sure like you could
maybe like you single-handedly killed a
tiger and then everyone's like yay and
then you're like yay look at how awesome
i am
and like 15 people think you're great
yeah and so our brains are just not
designed like the concept of blowing up
was not technologically possible
yeah in the environment like you go look
at a tribe of like a pack of deer
right like how how much can their social
status change
yeah very little right and so like
enter youtube where suddenly now we have
these things where like people get
elevated a lot so if you heard of a
company called goldman sachs
you know yeah okay so like i also work
with a fair number of people at goldman
and like goldman is sort of like it's
like a platinum tier investment bank
it's where everyone wants to go they're
like super famous super rich whatever
and so we see a ton of imposter syndrome
before like when i'm working with a 22
year old who's applying to be in goldman
he's like at the top of his class he's
the most competitive
he feels really good about himself and
then when he lands at goldman within six
months he's got impostor syndrome
because then when he introduces himself
to people and he's like oh i work at
goldman
and then i was like oh yeah and then
he's like but wait a minute because he's
like the most junior kid on the totem
pole so every day when he goes to work
he feels like clueless
and here he is getting all this external
respect yeah
so bizarrely what what i see in imposter
syndrome is like when there's
when there's a quick elevation the
imposter syndrome gets worse because
then you're kind of confused because
everyone's treating you like you're the
best thing since sliced bread
but like i know this sounds kind of
weird but like you still [ __ ] the same
every morning
yeah right and you're like wait a minute
yeah you know does that make sense
yeah it makes a lot of sense and and so
that's i definitely see that and i think
that like basically is if you do like
self-reflective work and stuff like that
we can talk about spirituality and stuff
that's one thing but i'm also detecting
something else which i don't think is
imposter syndrome which is sort of the
sense of worthiness
what's fair do i deserve this and i
don't really get the sense that
i feel like that's a little bit more
almost like spiritual in nature what do
you think
yeah i'm so i
i why is that different from imposter
syndrome
of like because you sort of described it
as like
uh other people saying like oh you're
hot [ __ ] and really you're just
a normal dude um but how is that sort of
different from
feeling like oh like i have
this stuff and i don't feel worthy like
why me
yeah so so the reason i'd say that
that's different is one has to do with a
comparison
it may not be different right so it may
be the same so i'm kind of proposing to
you but
what i'm like especially when you talked
about like other like so if you ask why
am i successful
and other people are not that doesn't
have to come with imposter syndrome
that i think is a really really
important question from like a spiritual
and karmic perspective
like why do you have the life that you
have
and imposter syndrome is about sort of
like being afraid that one day
everyone's gonna wake up and like start
to think that like
you make crappy content they know
they've figured it out
right so so the being afraid of them
figuring it out is
different from like understanding like
ethan why were you given the gifts that
you were given
you know you say your adhd and you have
struggles and things like that
totally get it but like i think you've
discovered that you
are brilliant right i think
that is not a word that i would use to
describe myself
but i'm also very very bad at uh
giving myself any credit at all or
saying anything nice about myself
yeah so i think that that feeling of
unworthiness
can grow into imposter syndrome but i
think that has deeper roots dude
because i think you were taught you were
unworthy
from a very young age what do you think
about that
yeah no i i definitely feel
feel that and it's it's so interesting
because i
i don't feel that at all from my family
because my family has always been
uh they've always supported like
everything that i've
that i've ever done and like both my
parents when
when i moved out to la they were like
you have to go and do this like you need
to go and make this leap
you can always come back blah blah blah
but like from kind of everybody else in
the outside
world i've always felt like
oh i'm doing bad and i'm stupid
there it is so there's the sump scar
it's the persistent feeling you carry
with you
right so i i think that impostor
syndrome can grow on this but this feels
deeper to me than
because like there are a lot of people
who blow up and have impostor syndrome
but are like narcissistic pricks who
don't bend over backwards for anyone
right so i think your particular
combination is like an insecurity that
pre-dates the youtube
followed by an explosion of social media
where like
you know now suddenly everyone's
treating you well and it's like doubly
perplexing
because there's the normal dose of
imposter syndrome and that compounds
with like the sense of like
am i really good at what i do am i
really worthy
so now the question becomes where does
that
you know i'm curious what what do you
think about the content you make
i think it's fine honestly
like i i i think that it's
entertaining for people but it's nothing
it's nothing great um i think that i
have made really cool stuff
but um yeah no i
i do think that i just am another dude
on youtube
like making videos and
i i think that i'm doing things that
anybody can do and that i'm i'm nothing
special
and then i just got lucky and i was at
the right place at the right time
i could get behind that
so so i know this sounds kind of weird
ethan but i think that that's
okay what do you think yeah yeah no and
like i
i think that that's very real
where it's just like i do genuinely
think that like
anybody can do what i do it's not like i
do anything profound
and like i like i i make
decent content and i got really lucky
and like i worked really hard and that
that worked out somehow
do you feel
unworthy
um yes and no it depends
it kind of depends on the mood that i'm
in um because there are parts of me that
sort of like with the stupidity thing
where i can recognize
like i i busted my ass for years and
years and years to like get where i am
um but then there's there's other parts
of me that
that are like i know people that work so
much harder than me and
are are you know better people than i
am and you know why don't
why aren't they where i'm where i'm at
why was i the person that
got got handed this i don't feel like i
deserve it
okay
so i don't know why ethan but i'm just
kind of in a teaching mode today
and maybe it's because you're working
with a therapist but you seem very
insightful to me so i want to give you
some stuff to kind of think about
as opposed to like maybe like meet you
where you're at which is normally what i
do
so here's here's what i'd recommend to
you and this is part of the process of
like helping people overcome imposter
syndrome
why do you compare
so that's that's something that i have a
really hard time is
i'm constantly comparing myself to
others um
and i think it's because of like
the people that are in my
friend group and like specifically on
youtube like most of the people that
i'm surrounded by are
these insanely successful talented
people
and i constantly feel like hey
that i'm always overshadowed by them and
that i will never be able to escape that
shadow ever
and i'll always just be that dude that's
friends with x um
and also uh
where what was the other point that i
was gonna make
i'll ask the question again why do you
always compare
um oh yeah that's the other thing is
that people always compare me to them
all the time it's like okay ethan did
this this person did that
um or like i wish these people would do
these things together or whatever
and it's always people comparing me to
my friends um and so i always feel like
i
i always compare myself to the people
that i'm around because other people
do that to me as well
how does it how does it feel to be
compared to these other people
um there's two sides of it which are
very
opposite and conflicting one
part of it is like i'm honored to be
even
remotely associated with these people
because these are people that i look up
to
and um that make
some really amazing stuff and that i
genuinely like believe
in the content that they make and
they're talented people and then the
other side of that
is the exact opposite where like it can
be really degrading
where anything that i do is going to be
compared to what these other people are
doing
and it really sucks sometimes where it's
like okay can you just
look at the thing that i made without
bringing up these other people like not
everything that i do
has to be connected to these other
people
can i think for a second
now i'm facing the challenge of how how
to try to condense you know weeks of
work into like 15 minutes
because there's definitely a road
forward i just don't know how to
condense it so let me just see if i can
pull this off
ethan do you have a particular if you
don't mind sharing do you have a
particular like religious or spiritual
bend
i'm not religious or spiritual at all
okay
all right let's start with this who are
you
what a loaded question uh
i genuinely don't even know how to
answer that
yep uh
i don't even know where to s to start
answering that
don't worry about being right yeah
just tell me who do you who are you um
am i allowed to just use a bunch of
adjectives absolutely
you're allowed to say whatever you want
to nothing is wrong with what you were
going to say
cool um i think that like
at my core i'm a very like passionate
um and i i do think that i'm a very
insightful person
um yeah i think
i think at my core like i'm very
passionate and
i think that i'm a pretty thoughtful
dude like i i do go out of my way for
the people that i care about a lot
and um yeah
so i'm hearing compassionate insightful
and dedicated is that fair
yeah i think i'm pretty easy going
sometimes too
to a fault yep uh yeah so that's
okay so here's here's i know it sounds
kind of weird but like when i work with
people with imposter syndrome like i
think it ultimately comes down to
the ahamkada or the ego which i don't
know if you remember when i drew but
there's like emotional mind there's the
intellectual mind and there's this thing
called the ego
and if we think so the one of the
functions of ego is to compare
so like what the ego does when we're
feeling bad about ourselves
is that it compares us to other people
sometimes it does so to reinforce the
fact that we feel bad about ourselves
but otherwise it also does it to kind of
pump ourselves up
yeah but if you kind of think about it
like i know this sounds kind of weird
but like you know i want you to look at
two rocks
and like just think about this for a
second
and like you can compare them
you can say one is bigger or smaller
but like it doesn't mean anything
does that make sense yeah and so i think
this is
once again where like social media
reinforces or conditions our mind to
compare
and especially when people are making
comparisons so it's almost like there's
an assault on your mind which is
in uh increasing your aham god now the
interesting thing is
a hamgar is technically translated as
the sense of i
so sometimes people who have a hum card
it's not necessarily like ego like it's
not
necessarily that they're egotistical you
can still have a sense of
i that has a very low impression
like i can beat myself up a lot i'm so
stupid i am this i am this i am this or
you can be like i'm the best thing since
slice friend
the yogis would actually say that it's
the i am part that's the problem
what's on the other end of the spectrum
is always going to lead to suffering
whether you say you're the best thing
since sliced bread and you're super
narcissistic those people suffer
immensely
or you beat yourself up those people
suffer immensely as well
and so oddly enough i think that like
you know you your your mind can make
comparisons but i think your true
freedom and the reason that you're going
to continue to have imposter syndrome
until you recognize who you are
because and now we get to the punch line
as long as you don't know who you
are where does your sense of identity
come from
what other people tell me exactly
right so so this is where like when when
it comes to your sense of self
ego is when the sense of the self comes
from the outside
oh dr k oh harvard
harvard oh did you see it did you see it
oh so beautiful
right and so like
you know it's like as long as that's
what your identity is based on like
you're gonna suffer
and and so like even the people at
harvard like they suffer a lot because
there's always
you know someone higher than them or
even if you rise to the head of a
department and you run
a division there are other divisions
and so like as long as your sense of
identity is based upon comparison like
the imposter syndromes to a certain
degree gonna be there
and so now the question becomes how do
you discover who you are
no idea okay close your eyes
who are you ethan what is your
experience
of yourself
the first thing that i want to do is
just say the things that i already said
okay when you asked me before of who am
i
okay so you can say those things so now
let's pick insightful
show me where insightful is like in this
experience if this is the only moment
that you existed
how would i know that how how would you
know how would you know that you're
insightful
uh by
just the fact that i can reflect i guess
okay
okay good experiences that i've had and
me as a person
okay so that's actually a far better
answer than i thought was possible
it shows that you're insightful but yeah
so but but i'm i'm gonna say like it
goes it's a little bit weird because i'm
gonna still tunnel down so
what the real answer is the capacity to
reflect
so i want you to notice that like so are
you a man
i don't know what your gender identity
is but do you identify as a man
how would you know if this is all that
existed if if you were alive for just a
moment in time and it was this moment
how would you know that you were a man
because i think that i am a man
okay but where is the madness in you
uh
i don't know right it's weird
yeah so so once again you gave the right
answer which is a step forward which is
that because you think you're a man
are you a youtuber yes
how would you know uh
because i make content on youtube okay
and were you a youtuber 15 years ago
no were you you
15 years ago yes
well then how does that work then how
can being a youtuber be a part of you
because we're constantly growing and
changing we you're correct we are
constantly growing and changing
but who is the you that is constantly
growing and changing
yeah right so you can
open your eyes let's check in how you
feeling right now what what are you
just how was that for you confusing do
you feel i don't wanna i don't want you
to feel stupid but i encour
i understand that we're walking on like
very unfamiliar territory that's
difficult for most people
yeah no i don't i don't feel stupid
actually
um genuinely um it's
it's really really interesting being
asked those questions
because that's not something that people
like
nobody goes up to somebody and it's like
who are you like
deep down who are you and so it's really
really weird thinking about that and
asking
and i think that that's most of what
therapy is
is just having somebody ask you a
question that you need to ask yourself
and asking myself that question and
genuinely not really having any idea how
to answer it
it's also kind of terrifying being like
oh i don't really know who i am at
at my core um and so it's it's kind of
to answer your question it's kind of
scary yeah a little bit
good so that's what we want because i
think that's going to be your road
forward so here i'll leave you with a
couple of thoughts so here's the thing
ethan
you are what you are and maybe now we'll
sort of segue into like
you know so let's just touch on opening
up is difficult so like
you have this idea of all this [ __ ] that
you are but you're not any of that stuff
all the stuff that you're afraid to show
other people
is not actually who you are because what
you are and this is sort of the yogic
perspective
is there's a eunice that transcends body
so like when you were a child you were
still you and when you're an adult
you're still you but the body has
changed
before you were a youtuber you were
still you
right like and after like when you were
a tiny youtuber you were still you
and now that you're a successful
youtuber you're still you
like you're still that kid who would
wake up at 4 30 every day to make videos
that's like that's a part of you there's
like a piece of you
that wants to like share something with
the world
and that part of you doesn't care really
about anyone else it doesn't care about
whether you're bigger or smaller or get
compared or don't compare it or whatever
right because like i think when you
really stop and think about
when you make your best content it is
when you are the furthest away from what
people think you are
and it is the closest to when you are
you
because i know this sounds kind of weird
but when you were working as that
manager and you were making you two
youtube videos a day
were you being you
yeah absolutely
absolutely right you were so close to
yourself back then
and the crazy thing is like when your
mom told you like pick one
the reason that that was so painful is
because she was asking you
you were so close to who you were back
then you had figured out who you were
and she was like
lop a piece off and you were like
no that's not i'm not a student it's
just not who i
am yeah and so i know it sounds kind of
weird but like there's a eunice that
transcends
your physical body there's a unis that
even transcends your mind
because their fluctuations with the mind
one day you're sad one day you're angry
but you're still you one day you're
egotistical one day you feel unworthy
maybe you feel those things more
constantly
but i guess that when you're taking a
dump
you don't really feel unworthy you're
just like
you're just exactly exactly
right and maybe if you're on your phone
and you're checking twitter then you
will feel unworthy
and and so you know i mean but like like
there's there's a eunice ethan
and this is the thing is i i would
encourage you to walk that journey and
now it's going to be tricky because i
don't know
you know therapy is a good place to
start but i think it's a little bit more
spiritual in nature
of really like go through this process
of like when you close your eyes and you
like sit down like i want you to go
experience
different things like go and like hike
and then like ask yourself like who's
doing the hiking is this a youtuber like
where are they because i'm not gonna i
don't think you're gonna find one i
don't think you are a youtuber yeah
i think a youtuber is just a mantle that
you put on
right and i think that the closer that
you get to that identity like
the less that this vacuum of identity
will be filled up by social media
and as you become solidified and
grounded in yourself
and i know you've been this you probably
are to a certain degree it's just
social media is going to pull you away
from that because in terms of identity
it's like
and you were taking a month off right so
like
i think you got closer to you yeah
and does that make sense yeah
no and there there were parts of of that
month where i did feel really close to
myself like
uh there was just like a
there was just a night where i just and
it was very cathartic and
very good but i just like sat and cried
for
like and it came out of nowhere but i
just
sobbed on my kitchen floor uh for like
15 or 20 minutes
out of nowhere and like it was really
good
because i think that i don't allow
or like subconsciously i don't allow
myself to
feel my like deep emotions all that much
and i think that's a thing that a lot of
youtubers struggle with because we sort
of like wear this mask of like okay i
need to make a video now i need to go on
stream now
time to be happy because we need to do
an alexathymia workshop for y'all
but okay yeah um that's uh
that's something that my therapist uh
brought up like a
month or two ago she's like i think that
you have alexa thymey and i was like i
don't know what that is and explained it
and i was like oh
yeah because i uh i can only this is
something that we've been working on
is that when she asked me how i'm doing
or how something affects me
most of the time my go-to thing is weird
or fine
and i have such a hard time explaining
how
something actually makes me feel can you
explain to people what alexa thymey is
uh from my understanding of it it's sort
of the inability
to uh
the inability to express uh
or articulate your emotions i guess well
said so i kind of think about it as
someone who's colorblind to emotion
yeah that's a good way of putting it
right so it's like it's like
and so we see this a lot actually in in
men especially because
men are actually conditioned to suppress
emotions and like not recognize them
so men are allowed to feel basically one
emotion any guess what it is
there's one emotion that's socially
acceptable for us to express
anger absolutely absolutely right so
like even when we get shamed and we get
dumped we feel pissed off yeah
it's the only real thing that we
understand like it's like you could
tell anger but everything else is weird
yeah and even positive emotions are like
oh it's fine
you don't you don't walk in and say like
i feel like validated because people
love me in the world and i feel like
loved and appreciated like you still
like you're just not taught how to even
recognize that like i feel good today
why do you feel good i i don't know i
don't know it's fine i'm just i'm just
surviving
i'm vibing today you know it's
yeah yeah so so alexa time
is like not knowing what you feel and
then the challenge is that like it's
hard to
you know process like what you don't
which you can't
feel or can't articulate
and and then you know in medicine we
have a saying that good diagnosis
precedes good treatment and i think the
big problem with lexithymia is that like
when we're
when we don't know what we feel like we
can't really fix it
because are you feeling sad are you
feeling ashamed are you feeling afraid
you know are you feeling guilty
all these things are important and even
like solidifying like the positive
feelings is actually really important
too
yeah um but yeah i'm gonna have to think
about that
but anyway i'm sorry you were saying
something else i kind of jumped in
with alex i just made a side comment
about i don't remember
okay um yeah and then i think the last
thing that i just want to toss your way
is like
i think ethan for someone who is as
contemplative as you are
so i'd tack one more thing i think
you're insightful but i think you're
also like a thinker
i get the sense that you know you may
not really view yourself this way
because of the adhd
but like like you think i get the sense
you think about stuff
um and so one thing that i would really
encourage you to also kind of do going
forward is like think about why you
so like you know i personally do derive
a lot of value from like
thinking about karma um and i don't know
whether it's real or not real
but there's good scientific evidence
that having
an internally consistent way that you
view the world
is like a good way to find like peace
and happiness and stability and builds
resilience
it doesn't say that a particular way is
superior to other ways so it's not like
the christian model is like better or
worse than the hindu model
but that just or even like being like a
secular humanist is totally fine too
but there is good data that spending
some time thinking about it and then
coming to your own conclusions about
like
what is the way that i'm viewing my life
in existence can be helpful
what do you think about exploring things
like the theory of karma and stuff like
that
uh yeah i mean i'm always open to like
exploring and uh and just
gaining knowledge about stuff because
that's not something that i've even
ever really dived into ever okay
i think it could help you answer these
questions like why you
like why are you lucky like why have you
seen so much success over the last year
when other people are struggling
and then i think there's another piece
of that which is that like
if you are lucky like what do you what
do you do with it
yeah you're saying yeah like that that
sort of struck a chord what do you
can you share a little bit yeah i mean
i i feel like i struggle with that a lot
where
where it's like okay like i am very
lucky to be
where i am like i have influence and
you know i'm successful and blah blah
blah but there's a lot of times where
i'm like
what the [ __ ] am i doing like yeah i
don't know
where i i feel sometimes
that i'm that i'm not
using what i have in the in the correct
way
yep yeah good i'm i'm very happy to hear
that
because i i think that's what makes the
world a better place
when people have resources and have
talents
and they think to themselves am i using
this the best way that i can i think
like that's
where the light in the world comes from
it's like when people like you are like
hey maybe i can do something and you
don't have to be big you know i think
it's just everyone has resources at
their disposal
um but yeah ethan i
can i pause for a second and maybe even
start with a little bit of an apology
yeah sure so here's here's what i i sort
of got from our conversation today
and i just want to make sure that you
know i feel bad if this wasn't really
what you were looking for it wasn't
helpful but
when i talk to you and when i listen to
you like here's what i see
there's a psychological component
there's this some scar of feeling stupid
and whatnot
and and you know like that was born in a
particular place you carry it around
with you it activates when you you when
you see the toilet flush that's when you
think toilet
so when you're in a group of people like
you're gonna be transported
and maybe this is a better way to put it
i think you become
eight-year-old ethan yeah in your mind
right and it's weird because that can
co-exist with successful ethan
like here's one ethan who's like oh like
how do i use my resources to better
you like make the world a better place
and like what do i do about like making
oh i want to help the universe
and then there's like oh my god stay
quiet don't open your mouth because
you're an idiot and you'll never
you know yeah you can't this is weird
right
so the thing about a some scar is that
the emotional energy retains the age at
which it was formed
so in psychology we call this regression
but you get like
your mind like boots up an old version
of your os
yeah and so it's really weird and it can
be really confusing but the first thing
to understand is that those can
coexist right i can like i can i forget
what it what's even called when you
have like linux installed on a windows
machine or
uh oh yeah you got like multiple os's
and you run one os inside the other dual
boot
yeah i don't remember i used to know
this kind of stuff but
anyway so it's like you've got these
multiple os so that's the psychological
component you know if you have
i'm going to give you a chance to ask
practical questions so that's where we
kind of started with
understanding the nature of mind
understanding what a samskara is how
that emotional energy gets stored it
gets called up
doesn't mean you're stupid it just means
that there's an eight-year-old
kid who feels stupid who is then
maximizing on your desktop and covering
all of your conscious space
yeah second thing is that you know some
of those insecurities like unworthiness
and stuff
can get exacerbated by youtube and
social media and that has to do with as
long as you aren't grounded with
who you are on the inside all of that
external stuff
is going to determine who you are
because the mind needs some kind of
identity
and if it can't figure out who we are if
i ask you who you are and you can't
answer that question
your mind is going to fill it up with
whatever you see on social media
that impostor syndrome is going to be an
escalation of external value that is out
of proportion with your internal value
and this once again gets to why it's
important to figure out who you are
because as you ask as you understand who
you are that's going to even things out
and then the imposter syndrome will melt
away
literally i've seen it melt away with
people once they understand who they are
yeah then we didn't really quite get
into why opening up is difficult but i
think like
ultimately you know you should ask this
question we kind of have this kind of
spiritual component towards the end
which is like
discovering who you are because you
didn't well know you know you just can't
put words to it
but you can say like i was close to
myself then i sat down on the kitchen
core
for i cried and so for you to actually
learn the systematic process of
discovering who you are
re-accessing who you are on a daily
basis
so you can kind of check in and be with
yourself every single day
and that the more you move towards that
person and the more that that person
grows within you
there's a part of you like i know i mean
i don't know but i'm gonna predict ethan
that there are times where you have this
idea and then you're gonna be like i
wanna do this thing like this thing that
you were talking about
deleting all your videos and there's
probably another part of you that like
thinks to himself like what if everyone
thinks it's stupid
and then you're like you know what i'm
gonna do it anyway because i think it's
fun
and so there are times where you shine
forward and overcome
all of the other voices telling you like
oh what if it doesn't work or what if it
thinks it's stupid
but in that journey ultimately i don't
think has to do with the psychology of
imposter syndrome i don't think has to
do with like your some scars i think
that journey is a spiritual one
and so what i want to apologize for is i
feel like i've introduced a lot of
different concepts and i've left you
hanging on each one
no i think that this was really good
like
it it just makes me think a lot more
about
again about like who i am as a person
because that's not something that i
really ever think about um and it also
i don't know makes me think about my
past a lot and
and why i have certain feelings about
things and like
again going back to being like oh man i
really had to like off a version of
myself
like that uh and i i think
again like that's something as a male
that
we have an issue with is like i suppress
a ton of stuff and it's like oh did i
ever
really processed that of like having to
go through that
and like you know going away from this
other
version of myself that was a giant part
of my life for such a long time like i
never
i've never really processed that before
or even really thought about it at all
if i'm being honest
yeah okay is there anything that um i
can
help you with or anything that you want
more direction on
um yeah i guess sort of like
figuring out who who
i am and that's that's obviously like a
very
broad thing but like i don't even know
where to start of
i don't even know where to start there
and that that's something that i think
coincides with like
self-love too because i i think that i
have a really hard time with that
and i think that i i don't have a super
great impression of
myself and i don't even know where to
begin
with that like how do you even begin
with like loving yourself
and like because it's not like i hate
myself but it's
i don't know where to start you know
what i mean yeah i i know exactly what
you mean
um
me just let me just think for a second
i want to share with something with you
but for some reason i feel like it's
it feels a little bit promotional to me
and i don't want to do that and i'm just
trying can i just like think through why
okay i'm just going to steer clear of
that um
i made this guide to meditation and and
let me just think okay because i think
it does illustrate the point well but i
don't wanna
it feels to me like i'm i'm gonna
advertise for something but i just don't
want to
but i think it's actually it's this is
why i made it
this is a common problem so people have
been asking me like in our community for
a long time like
what is like how do i figure out like
who i am
and so this is where i draw a little bit
on eastern spirituality but like we
basically made this course on meditation
hopefully it'll come out in a couple
months
um but a big part of this is something
called the the atman pada
so atman means soul or self and pada
means path
and so there is some like stuff about
figuring out like what is the nature of
self
i don't know if that makes sense or not
but like yeah it's interesting because
we don't really
think about it we don't like really get
taught
what it is so my hope is that you know
this
will help people on their journey and i
would encourage you to check it out
because
i'm going to answer your question now
but like there's more detail about it
that i i like to share so it's a whole
set of things like practices and
and understanding but let's start here
okay did that feel
like i just felt like it was
inappropriate to try to i mean i'm
trying to promote it it's just
i just it felt like i mean you have
resources that you've made to help
people with the exact same questions but
it just it felt like
disingenuous for some reason it did not
come across
that way at all um so here's what i
would say like so the first thing is
that like discovering who you are is
absolutely a process and there are
a bunch of different steps okay so
there's an experiential route
right which we touched on today and if
you liked that kind of thing
then i can guide you more there i'm
going to give you like some kind of
practice
in the next five minutes there's also
like sort of a journaling
or almost like intellectual or
contemplative route
which is like using like logic
philosophy thinking maybe taking a long
walk it's not an experience
so if i were to ask you to find
masculinity within yourself if you
identify as a man
that's an experiential thing yeah so
there's a little bit more of like a
philosophical or
intellectual or contemplative approach
which is separate from the experiential
approach
and then the third thing that i'm going
to offer you is
um hold on let me think what was the
third thing
oh yeah the third thing is something
relating to dreams and nightmares
because maybe we can hit two birds with
one stone there
but there's particularly a practice
which i think will give you a clue as to
who you truly are
that that relates to dreams and
nightmares
um so which one do you want do you want
the experiential one the dreams and
nightmares one
or the contemplative philosophical
uh let's do
the experiential one
okay
do you meditate i don't um
and that's something that i've wanted to
do and i've tried before
um and i've had a really hard time doing
it because i get too distracted
and my mind just like goes everywhere um
and i because that's something that i
would really like to do and i think that
i would benefit from it but i don't
really know how
to how to do it with my brain
beautiful okay this is gonna be this is
gonna be easy easy peasy loving squeezy
okay
we're gonna do two we're gonna do two or
three birds with one stone
so what we're gonna do is use your adhd
to help you figure out who you are
so this is what we're gonna do we're
gonna i'm gonna teach you a regular
meditation practice which you're gonna
be terrible at
great and then what we're going to do is
the real meditation practice behind that
which is going to trick you into
discovering who you are
great okay so i'm going to give you
meditation practice and this is what's
going to happen
your mind is not going to want to do it
and then there is going to be a part of
you that tries to force your mind into
doing it
does that make sense and so then the
question that i really want you to pay
attention you can fail catastrophically
at the meditation practice
let your adhd mind is wander as much as
you want to i mean
don't let it go but try to pull it back
and what i really want you to pay
attention to
is what is the part of you that is
pulling your mind back
what is that right because if if we're
saying that your mind is doing one thing
what is the part of you that is
controlling your mind
does that make sense yeah so we're gonna
go like a two-layer deep
meditation technique where if you
succeed great then you learned how to
meditate and your mind paid attention
no big deal wonderful okay we've
tricked you into meditating and even if
you fail i want you to just notice
what is the part of you that is
intending
and what is the part of you that is
failing does that make sense
yeah and then try to figure out which
one is the real you
okay so next question i'll give you so
now we have to come up with a generic
meditation
technique i really like to start with
something for some people who have adhd
i do something called alternate nostril
breathing have you ever heard of that or
tried that
i'm not okay so i like this practice
because
it isn't easy to do so if you think
about the mind with adhd
if it's very if i sat you if i told you
to close your eyes and observe your
breath
what would your mind do i'd start
manually breathing
okay good and then what would your mind
do uh
probably trail off um
yeah so so with the mind with adhd we
need to give you something
harder to do and the more difficult it
is to do
like the more balls your mind has to
juggle the more
likely you are to successfully meditate
okay okay
so i'm going to teach you a weird
pattern of breathing that you kind of
like
is hard to do and that's going to
hopefully help us okay
so it's going to be failures upon
failures upon failures so first of all
take your right hand okay can you
fold can i see it can you move it in
front of the camera yeah
it can you fold the the these two
fingers down
yep good okay so now what we're going to
do is i'm going to take my right
thumb and block my right nostril very
good
and i'm going to breathe in through my
left
now i'm going to block the left nostril
yep pinky yep pinky good exhale
breathe in through the same nostril
switch breathe out exhale
in
switch out
we're going to pause for a second you
got the hang of it
yeah so it's confusing because you're
going to breathe in switch
and breathe out and then you breathe in
again
so you always switch on a full breath
okay
what some people want to do is they want
to go in
out switch incorrect
yeah it's in and then what
and then switch and then what and then
out
and then what and then in and then what
and then switch and then out
beautiful okay so we're going to do this
for like
how long you want to do it however long
it takes
okay we're going to do like one to three
minutes okay
so i want you to do that and if your
mind wanders
we're gonna stack stuff up so we're
gonna go straight to hard mode okay so
we're not if
you just get if this is enough to occupy
your mind and it's all you can handle
that's great then we've tricked you into
meditating
here's a question what should i be
thinking about
focus on maintaining the the the rhythm
okay okay if your mind starts to wander
just try to make sure you're doing the
practice properly
or what you can do is focus on the
sensation of the breath
entering and leaving okay
cool i know it sounds weird what you
should be yeah and then remember if your
mind starts to wander
let it come back to the breath and then
pay attention to who's bringing the mind
back
okay okay so we're gonna do this for
like three minutes
so close your eyes sit up straight
and fail go
hey
me
yes
so
okay go ahead and finish the round that
you're on
let your eyes stay closed for a second
okay so i'm gonna ask
what is your mind doing now what was
your mind doing
during the practice um
it feels a little lighter now i guess is
how i would describe it
uh-huh during it i was going back and
forth
between focusing on breathing
and noticing how congested i am okay
um we're also thinking about uh
what twitch chat was saying while i was
doing that
okay so what so i want you to
so thinking was your mind
what was the focusing on your breathing
is that mind
i would assume it's also mine just a
different part of mind
okay more like focused like
i want to do the thing okay and and
what so when you started thinking about
what twitch hat was thinking about
yeah and you returned to focusing on the
breath or once twitch had entered the
picture it's hard to get them out
uh it was very ping-pongy so it was like
a thought would enter about chat and
then i'd be like no focus on the
breathing and then i'd go back to
focusing on the breathing and then i'd
switch to this nostril and i'd be like
wow it's really hard to breathe out of
that
okay nostril then i'd be like no back to
breathing okay so now open your eyes
so there's a lot going on there first of
all i think you did a fantastic job
cool okay so here's why even though you
were thinking about a lot of stuff
so many important things there that are
so subtle so the first is that
i want you to notice the interaction
between
noticing and thought so before you
think about how congested you are what
has to happen first
like the spark of the idea in the back
of my mind
so the noticing happens first and you
say spark of idea in the back of your
mind
it's not in your mind it's actually
outside of your mind yeah
so this is where the mind is a thinking
machine
it's where we experience thoughts and
emotions and have identities
about ourselves our ego our emotions and
our intellect all exist within our mind
when you watch a sunset and it's
beautiful and you're just like vibing
that's not really thinking it's not
really emotion it's not
joy or sadness there's not really ego
you're not like oh like if you take a
picture like if you take a selfie of
yourself then that becomes ego
but if you're just enjoying the
experience
that's not actually inside mind it's
actually outside of mind
does that make sense yeah so the yogis
hypothesize that the noticing capacity
actually exists outside of mind
and what happens is you notice something
like my nostril is congested
and then your mind starts to make
judgments about it
does that make sense it starts thinking
hypothesizing
oh man this is crazy what are they gonna
think can they hear it
there goes the mind yep
right do they think that i'm super
congested can they tell
there's the ego right
and then what did you do did you let go
of those thoughts and come back to the
breath
yeah how
by i guess by me
noticing that i wasn't on the breathing
that i wasn't focusing on the breathing
and then so
i almost like got distracted by
going back to the breathing yes yeah
very good
so noticing you're like oh
my mind has run over there now so now
the question
i know it was your first time but i'm
gonna ask you what the hell is it that
does the noticing
because if your mind is distracted how
are you able to
like what is it that's pulling the mind
because we've concluded the mind is
running out of like ryan is like oh my
god what does switch chat think about
the sound of my congested ass nostril
that's what your mind is doing yeah so
what is that
how are you if your mind is by
definition distracted
how can you undistract it doesn't make
sense you can't undistract yourself
right there's the second faculty and
like does that
sort of make sense something is outside
of the mind and like
tugging on it you're like get back
yeah and then the mind
and then you focus on the breathing and
then what happens in your mind
and then i notice something again
of like mostly my nostril
because i can feel it yep so then you
notice
and then the mind starts again because
boy does the mind
love to like you know think like oh like
if we think about social anxiety like
oh that person is looking at me he must
think i'm stupid
there's just a noticing there's an
observation that our mind attaches all
this crap to it
yeah and then it goes off to the races
you can yawn or sneeze whichever you
need to do bro i'm not sure which one it
was going to be
just like my face made a face all right
so so maybe that's that's your body or
brain's way of signaling
maybe this is a good place to stop i
think it is a good place to stop
but i want you to just appreciate that
there is some capacity
outside of your mind that can restrain
your mind
and that's what i'm going to hypothesize
to you is actually closest to the real
you
because i'd say that all of your best
inspiration doesn't come
from the mind it comes from that thing
and then your mind starts to shape it
think about how to execute it and all
that kind of stuff but that the
inspiration actually comes from outside
of mind what do you think about that
yeah that that makes a lot of sense
actually
uh because there's a i don't know a lot
of times where
i'll just have like a random idea that
comes kind of
out of nowhere and then i start thinking
about it
exactly so the thinking is separate from
the birth of the random idea
so spend time in that space and now i'm
gonna ask you
that noticing capacity if that's outside
of the mind
what is it or what are the qualities of
it
uh
that is correct that is correct that is
exactly correct
so ultimately what the yogis concluded
is that it doesn't have
qualities yeah because like even when
you're like
i don't know how to describe it that is
correct it cannot be described
it is formless and this so this is the
thing and now we're going to
kind of get to the punch line right so
like this is something normally that i
don't
you know i teach people over the course
of weeks but now i'm going to give you a
hypothesis
for you to test and tear apart is that
that observing capacity
is what they call divine it is actually
formless
and like it doesn't have qualities it is
neither good nor bad
it is just it is what is it is that
which notices
everything else it's kind of like
you know there's if i watch tv like
there's water on the screen but is the
water on the screen wet
so if i'm sitting in the theater
everything that happens in the screen of
the mind
can happen on the screen of the mind but
sitting in the theater i can never get
wet no matter how
hard of a storm there is on the tv
screen yeah
and so all of the qualities that we
think of in life happen inside our mind
oh i'm better than this person i'm worse
than this person
i'm successful i'm on sex all that
shit's in the mind
it's not really who you are and as we
tunnel down and like
adult child whatever like it's not who
you are what you are is that thing
and the closer you get to that thing the
better you'll feel
and when you're cur when you're
constantly grounded in that thing
you will have attained enlightenment
which is what would the talked about
this was really really great by the way
okay good good it
really got me thinking a lot
[Laughter]
and also thinking about how to not think
there we go
well's done yeah
good job ethan so listen yeah i'm really
happy to hear that
so you know i yeah spend more time in
that space
and even if your mind wanders if your
mind can get feels congested
that's totally fine because the other
thing that you're doing i know this
sounds weird
but every time your mind wanders and you
bring it back
what you're actually doing that's
actually a mental push-up
so if you think about adhd adhd is your
mind
wandering around without any kind of
direction because when you were eight
years old what did you want your mind to
do
i wanted to focus absolutely
could not so when you meditate and you
start thinking about congestion
and you bring the mind back what are you
training your mind to do
to come back yep and so the worse you
are at meditating what does that mean
about the number of push-ups that you're
doing when you meditate
i'm doing more push-ups and what does
that mean for your
swolness i'm getting stronger
absolutely so the more your mind wanders
literally you are strengthening a
capacity in your brain
called frontal lobe inhibition of other
things
every time your mind mind wanders every
time you bring it back
you are actually becoming more buff
mentally
you are training your attention it's
like a dog that runs over there and
you're like
heel boy and then the more you train it
the more it's going to start to listen
yeah my mind is going to be
so huge it's not
your mind that's gonna be huge it's you
that's gonna be huge
i'm gonna be huge you're gonna be so
small dude
i don't know if you're in a relationship
or what your you know sexual preferences
but i'm just gonna assume a
cisgendered male who's heterosexual and
the ladies are gonna love it
[Laughter]
i can't wait
well thank you so much this was this was
amazing thank you so much for having me
on
yeah man it was great having you and i
you know really fantastic i'm i'm
really rooting for you ethan and i think
like keep walking the journey that
you're walking because i think it's
going to be great
yeah i i'm excited to to
hopefully dive more into meditation and
and figure that out and figure out
how to do more mind push-ups not mind
push-ups
other yes yes yes
so so it's interesting because in
sanskrit they call it the other
that's like what they because it doesn't
have anyway
but good luck to you man thank you very
much for coming on and
and you know best wishes yeah thank you
so much
thank you thank you twitch chat for
hearing my congested
nostrils ah see there's there's the
insecurity
there it is finds any way to
peek its head it does it does so take
care man bye
all right have a good one all right
chatars
oh man that was great hopefully that
wasn't like too much of a span of
different things
did that make sense to people